Hammer CLI procedure for corrupted content (#3137)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_recovering-corrupted-content-on-a-smart-proxy.adoc

[id="Recovering_Corrupted_Content_on_{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
= Recovering corrupted content on {SmartProxy}

> In case of content corruption on a {SmartProxy}, you can recover it by using the `verify-checksum` command in Hammer CLI.

Reviewer: I'm wondering about one thing - how does the user know that they are dealing with content that had been corrupted? Is it clearly indicated to them, or do they have to dig for this information? Perhaps a SME might answer these Qs?

Author: @sjha4 Can you elaborate?

Reviewer 2: There are several causes and effects for corrupted data in /var/lib/pulp on the FS in general. I found a nice KB article with some diagnostic steps dealing with identifying such data: https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6961905

In general, if the client is unable to consume content from a published repo that it is subscribed to, we can use repair to diagnose any issues of data corruption. It does a checksum match on the data and identifies if there are any corrupted/missing units and attempts to redownload them from the source

> The `verify-checksum` command repairs content filtered for content views, lifecycle environments, repositories or all content without any filters on the {SmartProxy}.

Reviewer: Less fluff. Also I'm not sure if "filter" is a proper term here, because I would intuitively expect a filter when retrieving data as compared to updating (?) data as in this case. Academically speaking, I would call it a "selector" :) But prolly best to leave it out altogether.

```suggestion
The `verify-checksum` command can repair content in a content view, lifecycle environment, repository, or all content on {SmartProxy}.
```

After running a `verify-checksum` command, it will appear on the *Tasks* page as the action *Verify checksum for content on smart proxy*.

.CLI procedure
* To repair content in a content view, run Hammer on your {SmartProxy}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --id 2 --organization-id 1 --content-view-id 3
----
* To repair content in a lifecycle environment, run Hammer on your {SmartProxy}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --id 2 --organization-id 1 --lifecycle-environment-id 1
----
* To repair content in a repository, run Hammer on your {SmartProxy}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --id 2 --organization-id 1 --repository-id 1

> ----

Reviewer: For these commands, perhaps clarify what the ID is of, too?
```
... verify-checksum --id __My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__ ...
```

Author: @sjha4 Perhaps you can help clarify here?

Reviewer 2: The capsule content verify-checksum requires the id of the smart proxy to run the checksum verification and repair on.
The base command is :
{hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --id 2  where `id` is the smart proxy id.
The filters available to further narrow down the task to  target specific content are:
a)  --content-view-id
b) --lifecycle-environment-id
c) --repository-id

Reviewer: @bangelic What is your reason not to incorporate this information? Do you find the commands clear enough? As in that it's inambiguous what the `--id` is referring to?

Author: @Lennonka I thought the last sentence I added `The ID of the {SmartProxy} is required to run the `verify-checksum` command.`explained it. Should I reword it?

> * For global repair of all content, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To repair all content on {SmartProxy}, run the following command:
```

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> $ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --__My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__

Reviewer: Something missing here... perhaps this?

```suggestion
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --id __My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__
```

> [id="Recovering_Corrupted_Content_on-a-Smart-Proxy_{context}"]
> = Recovering corrupted content on a {SmartProxy}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="Recovering_Corrupted_Content_on_{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
= Recovering corrupted content on {SmartProxy}
```

In case of content corruption on a {SmartProxy}, you can recover it by using the `verify-checksum` command in Hammer CLI.
The `verify-checksum` command works for optional parameters associated with the {SmartProxy} such as `content-view id`, `environment-id`, or `repository-id` to limit the repair.

> You can run the `verify-checksum` command without any filters so it runs on all content on the {SmartProxy}.

Reviewer: Instead of describing the parameters, try saying that they can repair content in the given resource (content view, lifecycle environment, repository) or all content on the SmartProxy. Let's see if you can make the two lines into a single sentence, impress me :)

.CLI procedure

> * To run a `verify-checksum` command in Hammer CLI for `content-view id`:

Reviewer: Again, instead of describing the command, let's say what it does:
```suggestion
* To repair content in a content view, run Hammer on your {SmartProxy}:
```
Similarly for the rest.

> After running a `verify-checksum` command, it will appear on the *Tasks* page as the action *Verify checksum for content on smart proxy*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can track the progress of a command by navigating to *Monitor* > *{Project} Tasks* > *Tasks* and searching for the action *Verify checksum for content on smart proxy*.
```

* To repair content in a content view, run Hammer on your {SmartProxy}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> $ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --id 2 --organization-id 1 --content-view-id 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --id __My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__ --organization-id 1 --content-view-id 3
```
I would just do this as it's in the last command.
```
You may want to split the commands into two lines \
like this as they become a bit long.
```

* To run a `verify-checksum` command in Hammer CLI for `environment-id`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
hammer capsule content verify-checksum --id 2 --organization-id 1 --lifecycle-environment-id 1
----
* To run a `verify-checksum` command in Hammer CLI for `repository-id`:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
hammer capsule content verify-checksum --id 2 --organization-id 1 --repository-id 1
----

> After running a `verify-checksum` command, it will appear on the *Tasks* page as the action *Verify checksum for content on smart proxy*.

Reviewer: This line applies to all the commands with or without parameters, doesn't it? I'd move it up after the intro.

* For global repair of all content, run the following command:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> hammer capsule content verify-checksum --__My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum --__My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__
```

source: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/master/guides/common/attributes-base.adoc#L76

all other commands are also missing a `$ ` prefix.

[id="Recovering_Corrupted_Content_on_{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
= Recovering corrupted content on {SmartProxy}

If the client is unable to consume content from a published repository to which it has a subscription, the content has been corrupted and needs to be repaired.
In case of content corruption on a {SmartProxy}, you can recover it by using the `verify-checksum` command in Hammer CLI.
The `verify-checksum` command can repair content in a content view, lifecycle environment, repository, or all content on {SmartProxy}.
You can track the progress of a command by navigating to *Monitor* > *{Project} Tasks* > *Tasks* and searching for the action *Verify checksum for content on smart proxy*.

.CLI procedure
* To repair content in a content view, run Hammer on your {SmartProxy}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum \
--id __My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__ \
--organization-id 1 --content-view-id 3
----
* To repair content in a lifecycle environment, run Hammer on your {SmartProxy}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum \

> --id 2 --organization-id 1 --lifecycle-environment-id 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--id __My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__ --organization-id 1 --lifecycle-environment-id 1
```

----
* To repair content in a repository, run Hammer on your {SmartProxy}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum \

> --id 2 --organization-id 1 --repository-id 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--id __My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__ --organization-id 1 --repository-id 1
```

----
* To repair all content on {SmartProxy}, run the following command:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ {hammer-smart-proxy} content verify-checksum \
--id __My_{smart-proxy-context-titlecase}_ID__
----

> The ID of the {SmartProxy} is required to run the `verify-checksum` command.

Reviewer: Then this is redundant.
```suggestion
```
